2014-03-16

Background:
I liked making a game (Vorp) but it took forever, and the editor isn't that good,
and the game isn't really super great, though it has great elements.
Also, it doesn't work on touchscreens.
But I'm still obsessed with game ideas. My fantasy is to make a new one every
week.

Goals:
Write a library that combines performance with developer productivity.
Create tools that simplify level and robot making to the point where
a 1st-grader should be able to make & share stuff.

Tech elements:
JS
Very loose coupling
Web Audio
Multiple renderers
Touch and mouse support
Event-driven, using predicted inter-frame delays to do expected work and prep a graphics frame.
Quad-tree wall/space support
Focus on letting people (me) make new games, not new levels in existing game?
Robots.
WebGL!

Inspiration:
Adventure (2600)
Dandy
Gauntlet (the obscure fixed-screen space/cave flying/shooting game, not "wizard shot the food")
Pac Man
Wizard of Wor
Dig Dug
Boulder Dash
Robotron
N the ninja game
Bill Budge's Pinball Construction Set
Moon Patrol

Basic gameplay for Game 1:
Run around a 2d cave, avoiding or shooting robots.

Fancy gameplay:
Flexible gameclock time. Maybe even slow down sound effects.
Musical-ish.
Faces on things.

Big gameplay idea - sprite behavior affected by being line-of-sight to certain artifacts.
- love or fear artifact
- artifact induces aggression or passivity
- artifact can be carried, gives owner power, but is cursed - like LOTR's R.
Examples:
- artifact causes creatures to hang out near it and attack other creatures
- artifact causes fear - nobody can get close to it
- artifact induces blindness or short vision
- or invisibility
- or invulnerability
- or slows/speeds - affects clock cycle frequency. Player's sense of time is altered if affected.
- turns sprites to stone
- makes sprites invulnerable but very slow

Another idea: Design whole game first, then code it. Repeat.

Game 1:
Setting: computer-generated quad-tree caves.
Player: Circle that

Game 2:
Stunt tank!!

2014-07-17
Site experience? Ideas, some crazy:
- Start in the editor, with a ready-made level.
- powerups are the new keys - you may need them to get past certain enemies & obstacles
- player could be invited to edit the level as part of playing it. But we're getting too nuts for v1.
- Most basic experience is to have the player start playing at level 1 and proceed through the rest, to victory or death.
Consider the ordered list of levels as a single adventure.
Most of these games are going to have one adventure, by me.
But it's still nice to be able to create new one-off levels in the editor, and share by URL.
Web devs could still embed them wherever.

It would be nice to be able to go from playing to editing, without making a copy or naming anything.
Step one is to keep the level in memory, and dump it to the URL or a textarea, onchange(throttled) or on demand.
No storage, no headache. Minimize. Do not overbuild!


2014-12-09
Game ideas

Time warp ideas:
You have shields, but when they're down to zero, time slows down, which makes you super accurate and faster than
the enemies and traps.

Skip: short-range teleport

Two-endpoint portals can be carried by two players with tractor beams.
Or one player with a weapon can send things through a portal to assist a second player.
Two-thumb trator beam: Release button to drop. Flick and release to throw. Magnitude of movement creates temporary
charge, which fades, and gets consumed as activation for tools, and builds kick for throwing.

2014-12-22
Control ideas

Tap the fire area to fire in the direction of travel, but drag to activate aimable special, like tractor, mace,
or aiming fire/ice/earth. Mostly I like tractor though, because you need to interact with the rest of the world more.
Might only work with touch and mouse. Hard to do stuff like that on a trackpad, I think.

I think the one-button tractor-beam is going to be the easiest, most intuitive, most portable thing, if I can get the
forces right.
